a typical retailer a minute of
disruption costs them 200 000
it's impossible for humans to navigate
large complex organizations when time is
their greatest enemy
teams across the globe need to engage
quickly to solve problems when seconds
matter
time is money
any relationship in a business starts
with trust our customers started using
pagerduty for other mission critical
work security finance customer service
more than 560 integrations endless use
cases we're kinjira awesome your ops
terrific zendesk no problem cloudwatch
slack salesforce today we drive the
digital operations of more than 60 of
the fortune 100 and over 40 percent of
the fortune 500
we want to help you shift your teams
from being reactive to being proactive
predictive and even preventative
every day every hour can present a
moment of truth for your teams where
decisions you make in a microsecond can
have a far reaching impact
a gritty person will say damn it i am
going to make tomorrow a better day i
resolve that tomorrow will be a better
day pretty people own their own destiny
when we think about growth as a value we
think about never resting never settling
good is not good enough and we think
that way in service to you
[Music]
good morning good morning
good morning welcome everyone hi there
how are you i'm great thank you how are
you great to be back at saster love
sasser uh
good to see you all this morning honored
to be here with all of you and mostly an
honor to be here with one of my absolute
favorite ceos in the entire world
jennifer tata thank you so much samir i
appreciate you joining me i have long
admired uh jen's work as assassi ceo um
not just because she's an exceptional
ceo and business leader
but i also love the way in which she
leads
and who she is and what she stands for i
know has been an inspiration to me and
i'm very sure many others in our
industry and so uh when she asked me to
join the public pagerduty uh board which
is an incredible group a couple years
ago i jumped to the chance just like i
jumped to the chance to come join her
here today to uh share some thoughts on
this fireside so quick intro on me my
name is samir delakia
i've been fortunate to enjoy a 25-year
career in this great software industry
that we all get to work in uh most
recently i had the privilege of serving
as the ceo of a company named cengrid
from 2014 to 2019 we took our little
startup from 30 million through an ipo
um
back in 2017 and ultimately uh an
acquisition by twilio in 2019 uh for
three billion dollars which was a great
uh outcome and a great team to then join
hands with and then we worked on scaling
twilio uh passed well north of uh a
billion of ar and that was great fun and
ever since last summer i've been
enjoying a lovely sabbatical uh which
has been jealous
i currently sit on the board at
pagerduty uh recently joined the board
at service titan and do a bunch of
nonprofit work as well um including
pagerduty.org which we will talk about
later this morning so that's me in a
nutshell jen well i'm just thrilled to
be here i'm jen tahata this i think is
my sixth disaster maybe uh i've been
indoors i've been outdoors i've been in
the city and you know now here in san
mateo i'm just thrilled to see all of
you and excited to talk about the pager
duty story and you know what life's been
like
leading into our ipo and and in the last
two and a half years since we took the
company public fantastic and that's i i
mean there's such uh an incredible it's
been an incredible year of ipos already
and i don't think i've ever seen in my
in my time in this industry a pipeline
as robust of ipo worthy companies and so
i'm sure there are lots of people out
there listening uh that will learn glean
lots of insights from from the lessons
you've had
building this great company at pagerduty
so let's start off
so you joined in 2016 at pagerduty when
it was just a wee bit smaller
than it is now
and um and then less than three years
later in 2019 the company went public so
jen maybe talk the audience through a
little bit of how did you know that was
the right time how did you think about
that i mean you're always making a
pretty big bet when you think about the
timing to go public i think it's really
important is to
understand why what are your reasons for
taking a company public because the
crossover into the public market is not
an easy one and people tend to focus on
getting ready and all of the compliance
you know readiness the activities that
you need to do but at the end of the day
you have to think about what is it going
to mean for us to be a public company
what's going to change
and you know will those changes be
positive and will they help you to scale
or will those changes get in your way
and for us we had been working to make
the transition from really winning in
the s b in the mid market in startups
and computer software internet segments
and wanting to move into large
enterprise and had a great early lead
in our efforts there but we really felt
like we were quite well well known with
the developer community but not so well
known in central i.t and the fortune 100
and the fortune 500. so a big part of
why we went public in 2019 was really to
demonstrate to the market that we were a
viable long-term platform that could
support large largest enterprises in the
world the greatest brands around the
globe in their digital transformation
and that proved to be a great thesis and
that going public really has helped to
put pagerduty on the map with the
executive community with business
leaders with cios as well as the
developer community yeah it makes sense
so a clear why driving it in in paige
dude's case for sendgrid i remember it
was we wanted to do some mma and we
needed the equity capital but having a
very clear and driving reason as to why
that's a really good point i mean we did
our first acquisition last year with
rundeck uh and you know the rundeck team
is well integrated into our business
they're a phenomenal
founding team it's a phenomenal startup
but what's great is they're actually
excited about the next stage of growth
and
you know going public is not always easy
you can't plan for everything
this was the morning that we went public
where paigey our mascot video bombed me
on cnbc
so paigey became a meme as a part of our
ipo as well uh it was a lot of fun
one of the fortune journalists actually
wrote an article about paigee and paigee
now has their own
reputation to manage in that awesome
yeah and it is fun and you want to
celebrate the moment i know you also
talk a lot about team and making sure
you've got the right team in place as
you think about that transition maybe a
few words on that sure i mean i think
the ipo is a really important milestone
and sometimes in silicon valley we treat
it more like an exit but it's only an
exit for your private investors it's a
really important milestone for the
company and for us having a large team
with us on the day to sort of celebrate
the victory lap of you know being one of
the small percentage of startups that
ever makes it into the public market was
super important so in that crowd there
in front of the banner unfurling we're
several customers partners advisors to
pagerduty who helped us succeed to at
that level but we also
on that day and at the party celebrating
that night talked about our next set of
milestones winning an enterprise and
more recently becoming a billion dollar
you know revenue
sas company and that you know again low
percentage achievement for most startups
so it's a big goal it's an audacious
goal but my point here is it's super
important to make sure that once you get
through that public crossover that
you're still setting those milestones
setting those audacious goals that get
people excited that inspire them to do
their best work to build great products
and services and stay focused kind of on
the long game
yeah yeah no it makes perfect sense and
i know like right now there are a lot of
people out there listening in that are
dealing with the great resignation of
and all the things you just described
are super important as uh painting that
vision to make sure that you retain and
keep these these folks uh motivated what
was it like as uh as you were going
through the ipo
trying to get to to re-rally the troops
uh in that sense yeah well it's
interesting because it's a pretty
exhausting journey i mean back in the
day when we went public two and a half
years ago you actually went on the road
and met with investors for two weeks and
that in and of itself is a big job and
then you know you had the celebration
your first day of trading etc and then
we decided that it was really important
to bring our entire entire global
community into this process so
uh catherine my chief of staff who's
here today and i and a number of
executives we went on a worldwide tour
and hit every one of our offices to
celebrate with our team members but also
to talk about recommitting to the next
stage of growth and how important it was
going to be
for our leaders to
help
me develop the culture because
oftentimes people will ask me well how
did you protect the culture as you
scaled and it's actually not about
protecting the culture it's about
developing the culture building the
culture that you need for the future on
the strong foundation that you had as a
startup as a smaller company and you
can't do that one-to-one you can't meet
with every of your employees when you
get into the hundreds and the thousands
you have to be able to demonstrate that
culture through everything you do but
may even even the effort of just making
the trip around the world falling asleep
in black cabs in between customer
meetings in london was worth it just to
demonstrate to our employee base how
important they was they were to us and
how important this was as a milestone
for the company but more important what
we were looking forward to and you know
the job that we had to do to demonstrate
to our new investors and our
shareholders that we were a business
that was going to create a long-term
legacy for our customers our partners
and our investors yeah no and i love
that notion that like for the public
investors just joining you on that
journey it's day one for them
you're there with your team celebrating
usually six seven eight years of hard
work to get there
but you're just getting started and
they're like okay great let's what are
you going to do for me you know yeah
what are you doing for me lately lately
let's see
look yeah the next quarter the next
quarter and that clearly you know we've
talked before about how critical it is
before you're going out you know the old
envelope test in the drawer can you can
you forecast every quarter you're
putting the envelopes in the drawer and
pulling them out on your revenue line
your profitability line can how closely
can you predict that you can't be more
than a little bit off uh so to make sure
that you're ready and i remember talking
to you in a bar
at re invent in vegas
after you had gone public
and you were saying like jen if you're
thinking about this make sure
you've got the next six quarters lined
up right and because
it's it's not enough to meet your
guidance you have to beat your guidance
and you have to raise and you have to
have not only great instrumentation on
your pipeline and confidence in your
leadership but you also have to have
really strong fidelity in how you think
those teams are going to perform
and and and your ability to actually
over deliver not just under deliver you
have to know your business well enough
to be able to forecast with enough room
i always say sandbag appropriately you
know um i remember another ceo i said so
you know coming up on my ipo like what
do i need to know about my first quarter
reporting and he said lowest believable
number
put out the lowest believable number
that's harder than you think it is right
because you want it to be realistic but
your investors want you to deliver for
all the growth rates and so you there's
also a lot of work to do in the
narrative to help your investors
understand the story and understand the
puts and takes and also you know gain
and develop confidence over the long
term around what your business is going
to look like yeah absolutely and you
know obviously for for those of you that
are looking at this here's a huge
opportunity as you're re-recruiting
these these team members
for the next leg of the journey the next
slug of the steep climb um
reinforcing the there's so much more
value that gets created after the ipo
and it's to jen's points always thought
of as this end destination this exit
event but but gosh once you once you
start compounding revenue numbers
north of 100 million in arr at 30 40 50
year over year
what took you eight years to get to the
first billion will take you 12 months to
get to the next billion absolutely and
you have to manage employee sentiment
through that process because i mean one
of the things that
you learn after an ipo is everybody's
checking the stock price on a daily
basis and i remember our first all hands
after ipo
i noticed that some of our employees
seem to be spending more money on
personal goods and personal items
jewelry belt shoes than they had before
and i remember saying to them do not
watch that stock price every day
because on a day when your stock's up 10
that doesn't mean you were 10 smarter or
10 percent better and the day your
stock's down 10 it doesn't mean you were
10 more stupid than the day before and
you shouldn't be writing checks that you
don't know if you can cash it's really
about focusing on the long game on
long-term shareholder return and that's
a hard thing for employees who have just
gone through you know this process to
grasp so
we really started to focus on the key
factors that would demonstrate the
durability of our growth yeah i was
going to ask you to talk a little bit
about that i know in the last few
earnings calls investor day we've been
talking about how you anticipate the
needs of customers and even of whole new
markets so that we have multiple engines
of growth as we scale well past ipo
maybe a few words on that yeah well one
of the things that was really
interesting as as we were going through
planning for the ipo was thinking about
how do you get to know public company
investors and help them get to know not
only your business but your leadership
team because public company investors
are not just looking at the numbers
they're looking at who you are as a
leader how deep is your leadership bench
you know what is your track record for
success how convicted are you around
your mission and your vision can you
really be disruptive etc and so we did
not need the cash but we raised a series
d about you know six eight months before
we went public in order to test our
story and our narrative and our
performance out in front of a number of
what we now call crossover investors and
t rowe price was um one of the firms
that led our series t along with
wellington i remember sitting down with
um henry who at the time was leading the
growth fund at t row he now has his own
uh fund called durable actually
professor let me advance to that next
slide yeah phenomenal investor and and
henry took me to school
on you know what it means to demonstrate
the durability of your future growth
beyond just trying to get the investor
community to to take your word for it
and so we really used the opportunity in
working with henry ellenbogen to define
and really articulate what were the
multiple drivers for growth in our
business and how and give people a
picture of how they might play out long
term and for us those drivers were
making that transition from a phenomenal
popular single product to a
multi-product platform and demonstrating
that we could do that
also demonstrating that we could be
successful in launching and performing
and winning in new markets so at the
time we had laid the groundwork to
really build a strong presence in emea
and that has served us very well from a
growth engine standpoint also showing
the platform-s nature of pagerduty and
the fact that not only developers but
i.t organizations security teams
increasingly customer success and
customer service teams could leverage
pagerduty for use cases they imagined
where the common theme was
that you're going to see more and more
work that is unpredictable unstructured
time critical and mission critical and
that none of the other workflow
platforms that came before patriot could
solve those types of problems
efficiently effectively and in a way
that users really liked and were able to
use quickly so maintaining a really
intuitive user application on top of you
know a more complex platform was going
to be really important for us and then
finally like testing ourselves and our
own metal with the largest enterprises
in the world and pagerduty now serves
more than 65 of the fortune 100 and more
than 45
of the fortune 500 and these are the
biggest and best brands in the world who
over the last couple of years
have gone through phenomenal digital
acceleration right and so in some ways
that's helped the market meet us because
one of the challenges that pagerduty's
had is we're out in front of the market
kind of demonstrating a new way to do
work and not everybody transitions in
their operational maturity at the same
rate and so you know the pandemic and
the past you know several months in the
market have really created an
interesting opportunity for our
customers to recognize that digital is
the way business is getting done digital
is the way consumers are engaging with
their brand everybody is online and on
demand and that's no longer the sort of
side business or the secondary business
that is the primary
way that these companies the brands that
we serve are building out their own
growth and their revenue and their
brands over time and that's meant this
very quick shift to how do i make sure
all the digital kit in my business works
how do i build digital assets that
create a delightful experience in the
few seconds
a consumer or a user will give me to
make everything work perfectly and
that's where digital operations and more
broadly real-time ops has become super
important and customers have started to
rely on us for more of a strategic
partnership as opposed to simply
improving the way they manage incidents
and respond to incidents yeah which is
incredible you know the pandemic has
been such an incredible tailwind in many
ways for this transformation and
therefore for the usage of page duty
across businesses of all size i've been
as a board member just so amazed at all
the use cases outside of the traditional
it use case that is what i used it at as
a customer at sendgrid we were loved
pagerduty our team loves pagerduty but
uh we use it in in in our engineering
teams and devops and so on but then to
hear about all these other use cases and
security and customer service and
customer support et cetera that um those
those engines of growth they just keep
going you know it is a real platform
totally one of the things one of my
customers helped me realize that one of
the huge business value propositions for
pagerduty is it helps teams
operationalize the trust they're trying
to build with their own customers as
opposed to depend on a really complex
ecosystem to just work perfectly all the
time which i know we know that software
is imperfect we know that integrations
are imperfect even apis are imperfect
and so if you just rely on that software
to run perfectly all the time you're
you're going to mess up with your
customers and so that operationalization
of trust really has become a mission for
us in many ways and some of the use
cases that we hear about are really fun
i mean and really interesting we have uh
a non-profit that leverages pagerduty to
manage corneal transplants and you know
really like talk about a time-sensitive
mission-critical workflow a cornea
becomes available by a donor and you
have you know less than a few days that
that cornea will be viable
when it can be transplanted into a new
recipient and so they use pagerduty to
manage all the organizations that are
part of you know taking that cornea
getting it to where it needs to go
transplanting it effectively in a
patient and after care and that to us is
a really fulfilling
way to see our platform go to work but
it only we only learned about it because
the customer told us about it yeah and
we certainly didn't design the software
to do that but it really speaks to sort
of the broad applicability of what we do
and also the way the world is going and
one of the other lessons that i learned
in this process was when you're getting
ready to go public you know the the
banks help you your advisors help you or
your investor relations people your
product team they help you build out
this narrative and you know one of the
things you talk about in your narrative
are what are the tailwinds that are
going to support the durability of
pagerduty's growth and the interesting
thing is you know you share these
tailwinds and wow you sure hope that
they are long-term tailwinds and they
continue because you're going to be
around in the public market every
quarter and be asked to demonstrate that
those tailwinds you talked about when we
took that allocation and gave you our
money actually came to fruition and it's
interesting the tailwinds we talked
about then are the tailwinds we still
talk about now cloud adoption and cloud
migration devops transformation what we
used to call digital transformation
which is now digital acceleration and
even more recently to your earlier point
this the great migration of employees
because when a pager duty employee
leaves one company and goes to another
they take pager duty with them word of
mouth has always been good for us so we
actually see this this massive change in
employee mobility as a potential
tailwind for pagerduty as well but you
better be ready to stand behind those
tailwinds when you come up with them
well thankfully we've uh you've chosen
wisely with the tailwinds digital
transformation real-time work those are
all things that are not going anywhere
anytime soon they're just accelerating
um so quickly a few other questions here
uh on leadership team evolving as you
think about going through the ipo and
scaling post that any quick thoughts on
um how you think about succession
planning or things that where you spend
your time versus host ipo that may be
different than i once had a ceo tell me
that he didn't like working with people
and i remember saying to him quite
directly then i think you're in the
wrong job
because your job as a ceo is to identify
the talent that you need not just today
but the talent that you're going to need
for the unforeseen challenges and
opportunities in front of you over the
next couple of years and also to develop
those people to put those people in a
position to succeed to empower those
people to do their jobs well
and i got feedback in a 360 degree
effort with my board about three years
ago and one of the things they said is
jen there's a lot of things across this
business that you've done before that
you're able to do you've been in that
job you can make those happen but
there's a few things that only the ceo
can do and that is where you have to
focus your time so figure out what those
things are what are the things that only
a ceo can do and make sure that you're
investing on those that you're investing
your time in those things and you're
empowering others to do their jobs
really well that you're coaching
others on how they can you know
effectively lead the organization um as
the organization changes and grows and
one of the challenges of being a ceo in
a high growth company is every now and
then you have an executive that kind of
hits their sort of limit and you need
something different and you have to have
that tough conversation of either
leveling that person or helping that
person transition to a different chapter
in their career and that's hard but it
is necessary and critical and yeah and
typically good for them too and and
often good for them if you don't wait
too long you know like there's an old
saying like i never let anyone go too
early
um i'd also just say that having a deep
bench really matters like oftentimes we
hire these these great people we get
excited about them because they're new
they're experienced you know when you're
a public company ceo they're often more
experienced than you at their job and
you forget to remind them that it's
their job to build a very deep bench
what if they get hit by the lottery bus
you know next week what if you need to
make some changes you want to have
people lined up in the dugout ready to
take on the next job and that is so much
more important in the public market
because the market's not going to give
you grace if you have an open role or a
leadership gap that you can't manage and
as a ceo you don't have time to do
everybody else's job on the team right
and it's it's hard to ask other leaders
to take up the slack because they've got
their own challenges and their own
opportunities that they're prosecuting
yeah well i i i love that theme around
and there's probably nothing more
gratifying well there are a few things
that are as gratifying as the ceo of
developing people working with your team
seeing those folks grow in their careers
and tackle the next set of challenges
there is one that's close which is
seeing your business become a force for
good and i think in increasingly you
know leaders are judged uh as we see all
the time on the human-centric side of
leadership now in this day and age more
as as much as uh on their delivery of
the business performance and the results
it's very different than it was five 10
20 years ago um how does and and you
have been such an incredible leader in
this space talk a little bit about how
that influences your focus on social
impact to pagerduty and some of the
things we've done well i like a lot of
young people in my 20s went to my ceo at
the time and quit my job
because i wanted to start a non-profit
and i'm sure he had seen this like a
hundred times before because he seemed
very well prepared for you know my big
speech about how i want to change the
world and have a bigger impact etc and
he said jen that is admirable and i
really appreciate that but if you
leverage the scale of our company to
change the world you have a much better
shot at making a meaningful impact than
if you try and do it as one person and i
thought
that's actually a pretty good point
compelling argument
compelling argument and that was a
company called i2 back in the early days
of supply chain automation and software
and
when we went public we built a
foundation
through donations from employees that
allowed i2 to invest in non-for-profit
activities and and
try and build their social impact i
think mark benioff has done such an
incredible job of setting the pace for
other leaders around not just your
corporate responsibility and your
business responsibility but your social
responsibility as a leader and he has a
saying that all leaders should do well
and do good and that led to the one
percent pledge which you know salesforce
initiated where samir and i are now on
the advisory board and the ceo champions
for one percent but if you haven't
thought about it as a leader in your
company you're essentially committing
one percent of your equity one percent
of your product one percent of your
people's time
to serving the communities around you
and when you do that before you go
public that then funds
tens of millions of dollars in some
cases hundreds of millions of dollars
for us it was the birth of pagerduty.org
which now serves time critical global
health issues and just an echo to bull
communities around us because i really
believe that not only that should the
tech industry be more equitable and more
diverse but the world around us
shouldn't it's our job to help drive
that transformation i think what people
miss about this opportunity is how
important and valuable it can be
in driving your purpose and connecting
your employees to a broader purpose that
is bigger than just what your products
and services do for your customers and
for us i mean this is an area where we
get very high engagement scores where
our employees participate actively not
just in volunteering their time but also
their services and their expertise and
it's become part of the pager duty
fabric in a way that has exceeded my
expectations yeah i mean it's incredible
i know because i work with the
pagerduty.org team as well and some of
the stats they share are incredible
about the percentage of employees that
volunteer time
the scale of the impact tens of millions
of dollars that they can deploy
particularly as you all know in the last
12 months the things that are happening
in the world with the global pandemic
with um yeah we've been really focused
on equitable vaccine distribution and
education of late you know and and i
know the the employee's resonance with
hey our company just wrote a
seven-figure check to go make sure that
people that can't get vaccines can't
afford them can get them that makes you
feel good and attached to the purpose
totally and i also don't have to give
away money from our p l to do it you
know it's and we're not profitable so
i'm kind of thoughtful about that like
what i do with our shareholders money so
take the one percent pledge it's it's a
great long-term commitment and it will
i'm sure it will exceed your
expectations as well absolutely every
every uh company out there listening in
if your leadership team hasn't
considered or taken the pledge yet do it
this year alone as jen said you know we
work with the pledge 1 org and the ceo
is considering it and i think we're up
to about 600 million dollars
have been created in value set aside
with the equity created from the ipos
absolutely year alone we're talking
billions over the last uh several years
and so this is a very
powerful way to do for our industry and
our companies to do good in the world
while we build great great businesses
absolutely so we're very fortunate all
right
we've only got a couple minutes left
last
last question
running a public company ain't easy
it's hard hard work especially i
understand uh in a pandemic turns out
that just adds a degree of difficulty um
how do you think about stay insane and
and your own wellness your own
development um how who do you turn to
for support and counseling you
i mean i you know the first thing i
would say is like running a public
company is a very lonely job with a very
big audience you know like you go to
school drop off and somebody notices
your compensation changes or they saw
that your stock was down like and you're
having those really interesting
conversations with people who you hardly
know um
you know in the pandemic like managing
through a crisis realizing that our
employees were didn't trust their
government didn't trust local
authorities and were coming to us for
information around how to stay safe and
keep their families safe you know having
to shut down our offices globally in a
24-hour time period and thinking we'd be
back in a few weeks and finding you know
we're never going back i mean we have
offices that are now more like the soho
club they're a place to sort of
collaborate and hang out but you know
people are not going in there on a
day-to-day basis and that flexibility
has been one of the great you know
benefits of this um what i learned from
people like sameer and zach nelson who's
on our board bonita stewart is that i
have to take care of myself and my
health first so some of the things we
changed i don't take a meeting before 9
a.m in the morning i exercise every
single day
i put my own oxygen mask on first
in order to make sure that i can serve
the business no matter what comes
because there's a lot of unanticipated
work in the ceo gig there is no
structured predictable day and so
you know just kind of summarizing the
takeaways because i know we got to go
know why you're going to go public i
think your investors want you to but
know what the y is for you and for your
team and your customers make sure that
in that process you're thinking about
signaling the next milestone and
managing employee sediment sentiment
design your business for durable growth
it will pay off later if you don't it
will be a big problem earlier than you
think build a very deep leadership bench
because you can't plan when you're going
to need to move some things around
make sure that you're doing well but
also doing good you have a huge
opportunity and a huge privilege to
change the world around you and put your
own oxygen mask on first you're no good
to anybody if you are not in good state
of mind great mental and great physical
health
sounds awesome great lessons for all of
you out there listening thinking about
taking your companies public and most
importantly how do you scale it and be
successful as pagerduty has as a
publicly traded company for many many
many years to come thanks jennifer taha
thank you speaker it's so great to have
you thanks everybody great to see you at
saster hope to see you soon all right
take care everyone
[Music]
you